Linear Equations 

An equation where each term is expressed as either a constant or a variable multiplied by a constant.
variables - the unknown values to solve for
coefficients - the multiplying factor for each variable (assumed 1 if only variable and no constant)
constant term - typically the RHS, this is the constant value which describes what the LHS equates to

The relationship described by a linear equation can be represented as a straight line in a 2D cartesian plane, 
where the change of value for one variable is directly proportional to said change in other variables.
NOTE: Linearity is inferred by the use of powers of 1 for each variable, so this
excludes the use of square values, square root values, etc.


System of Linear equations

This shows how two or more linear equations with the same variables describe a linear system.
This allows us to solve problems with multiple dictating factors that have unknown values, related to
each other linearly.

The solution involves finding the values for each variable which satisfy all equations at the same time.
This leads to one of three results:
i. Exactly one solution, one intersecting point on a 2D graph
ii. No solution, inconsistent equations indicating the lines would all be parallel, not intersecting
iii. Infinitely many solutions, where each line is coincident (positioned the same on a 2D plane), meaning the equations
are all dependant on each other.


Solutions

A value or a set which, when substituted for the variables in the original equation, reads true. The number(s) should each
fit in the equation such that the LHS component equals the constant term on the RHS. If the equation is not true, meaning that
the equation presents an unequal LHS and RHS, then there is no solution. A solution to a system of linear equations infers that
this must be true for all equations simeltaneously, where one result should satisfy every linear relationship in the system.


Augmented Matrix

A mathematical mechanism to represent a system of linear equations as a 2D collection of numbers. The 2D collection depicts all 
coefficients (columns) for each equation (rows), followed by their constant term (final column of each row). The resulting matrix
depicts each equation in a cols*rows grid, its augmented form. This opens up a lot of possibilities for performing operations on
the whole system, providing a compact way for solving systems conveniently via row operation rules.

Elementary Row operations

These are rules outlining what can be done on a matrix to solve its system:
i. Swap two rows (useful for Gaussian elimination and RREF)
ii. Multiply a row's elements by x where x != 0
iii. Multiply a row's elements by a multiple of another row's corresponding elements


Row-Echelon Form (Reduced)
This aims to simplify a matrix that's in REF (not reduced). REF depicts a system in a matrix with an upper-right
triangle of values, with the lower-left consisting only of 0s, and leading 1's as the pivot (first value) for each row:

RREF takes this one step further by satisfying one more condition: Each leading 1 is the only non-zero entry in its row.
RREF presents an easy-to-read format for interpreting the resulting solutions for each variable. Since each 1 corresponds to a 
specific variable (x, y, z for e.g. in the above), and the constant term is defined for each in its corresponding final column. 
A row containing no leading 1 is a free variable, meaning that it can take on any value, and the other variables in the system 
are expressed in terms of the free variable.


Gaussian Algorithm

This is used for systematically solving systems of linear equations by taking an augmented matrix directly to RREF. The procedure requires:
i. matrices containing only 0s are already in REF
ii. the first column from the left containing a non-zero entry has its value denoted as 'a',
swap the row containing 'a' with the first row
iii. divide the entire top row by 'a' to turn the leading element into a 1
iv. use elementary row operations to make all entries below the leading 1 equal 0 by subtracting multiples of the top row from each row below it
v. excluding the first row, repeat steps i - iv on each resulting matrix

Once completed, the results are easy-to-read and can be interpreted to determine a single, infinitely many, or no solutions at all.


Gaussian elimination

The aim here is to solve a system of linear equations by simplifying the matrix and determining if there's an existing solution. The Gaussian algorithm 
is applied to bring the augmented matrix to RREF, which allows the results to be interpreted as discussed. While the Gaussian Algorithm outlined above 
shows the steps required, the overall elimination process encapsulates the algorithm and elimination outcome. The algorithm provides the recipe while the
elimination process involves using the recipe to achieve the desired outcome. 


Rank of a Matrix

The rank of a matrix is determined by the number of leading 1s in the REF matrix (achieved through row operations). This determines the number of linearly 
independant rows/columns. Since row ops don't change the linear independence of each row, if there are linearly-dependant rows, the REF will matrix will contain 
some rows of zeros. Each row pivot is linearly independent, and the number of such pivots determins the matrix rank. 

Properties:
i. matrix rank is always less or equal to floor(rows, cols)
ii. matrix rank is equal to number of linearly independent columns
iii. row ops preserve matrix rank
iv. matrix rank is equal to the number of matrix column space

This provides important insight when it comes to interpreting system solutions and linear transformations.


Rank and solutions to a system of linear equations

Rank and solutions provide the basis for interpreting the results of solving a system of linear equations.
If the system has at least one solution, then it's considered to be consistent.
Considering a scenario where a system of 'm' equations in 'n' variables is consistent, and the rank of the augmented
matrix is 1 (r1), the set of solutions involved exactly n - r params; the number of free variables equals the difference 
between matrix variables total, and matrix rank:
i. When the rank of the cofficient matrix (LHS) is less than the rank of the augmented matrix, there's no solution
ii. When the rank equals the number of variables, there's a unique solution
iii. When the rank is less than the number of variables, there are infinitely many solutions

The solveability of the system is therefore determined by the rank of the matrix.


Homogeneous system of equations

A system of linear equations is considered homogeneous if each equation's constant term is 0:

- Homogeneous systems always have at least one solution, even if it's only the trivial solution
- The trivial solution, where all variables are 0s, is a solution to a homogenous system 
- Infinitely many solutions are typical for homogeneous systems, expressed with free variables
- Any linear combination of the solution to a homogeneous system is also a solution (it will still 
solve each equation)


Trivial/non-trivial solutions

The trivial solution contains 0s for each variable, as well as the constant term. This is always a solution
to a homogeneous system. Any solution containing at least a single non-zero variable is considered non-trivial.
This distinction determines whether variables for one equation in the system are linearly-dependant, and are
expressed as a linear combination of the variables.


Basic Solutions

Basic solutions arise from applying the Gaussian Algorithm to a homogeneous linear system. This results
in a single particular solution, or a set of solutions with free variables as params. These free variables
can take on any value. When expressing basic solutions with paramaterisation, the representation form is 
referred to as parametric form, or the general solution to the system. This provides clear, readable insight
to the structure of the solution with direct application to further processing.


Rank and homogeneous systems

For a homogeneous m * n system with r rank and n - r basic solutions, every solution to the homogeneous
system can be expressed as a linear combination of the n - r basic solutions. Each basic solution can be scaled
by a constant and added together to obtain this.

This outlines how the rank of a homogeneous system can be used to determine the existence and nature of a solution,
find the general solution, and help to analyse the matrix properties.


Module Summary

The goals of this module revolve around solving systems of linear equations and interpreting their results based on properties like rank
and solutions. The goals were:

1) Apply elementary row operations to systems of linear equations represented in matrix form
2) Apply the Gaussian Algorithm to reduce a matrix to row-echelon form
3) Express the general solution to a homogeneous equation as a linear combination of sets of basic solutions

The module was geared towards solving problems with multiple variables and known scalars, revealing the fundametal relationships between each.
Based on the prerequisite content involving algebraic rules and functions, sets, graph curves, etc., this module required a slight paradigm shift to focus on
linear relationships in matrix form with solution vectors. Each operation and algorithm covered is aimed toward reducing the system to a clear, easily-interpretable form that's
equal to the original system. 

The module explored elementary row operations, which provided the stepping-stones for reducing the matrix to REF and RREF.

Elementary row operations have strategic use-cases when reducing a matrix, particularly:
SWAP ROWS - Most useful for getting a non-zero value as the pivot without introducing fractions, good starting point. 
MULTIPLY BY SCALAR - Perfect for simplifying and normalising rows, reducing 
MULTIPLY BY SCALAR OF ANOTHER ROW - Go-to for eliminating entries below the pivot, very important for Gaussian elimination.
Learning to use the fundamental row operations helped build my intuition for the rules and processes of this module.

Additional matric properties, like rank, reveal convenient insight for interpreting the final solution for a problem:
No Solution - If the rank of the coefficient matrix (LHS) is less than the rank of the augmented matrix, the system is inconsistent
Unique Solution - If the rank of the coefficient matrix equals the rank of the augmented matrix, there exists one solution (set)
Infinitely Many Solutions - If the rank of the coefficient matrix is less than the rank of the augmented matrix, there are free variables that can take on any value

What is the advantage of Gaussian elimination over a substitution type of approach when you have systems with a large number of variables?

Gaussian elimination provides a compact method for reducing systems of linear equations to a form that's easy to 
interpret and solve. It relies on strategically applying row operations to manipulate 
the augmented matrix, bringing the system to RREF. A substitution approach involves solving for one variable at a time, 
substituting the values back into each equation, and solving for the next variable. This is rather intensive for larger 
systems with lots of variables. Since substitution requires solving variables 
in relation to each other, this can lead to a large stack of sub-problems, each with multiple interdependancies. As the number 
of variables grows, mapping their relationships becomes increasingly complex, making the process longer and less efficient to solve.
Gaussian elimination determines a clear starting point for this process and systematically reduces the problem to a point
where the relationships are clear and easy to interpret, relying less on reiterating relationships between vars
and instead on following a recipe with proven steps.

Finally, the module unpacked Homogeneous systems, where all constant terms are 0 and the trivial solution is always present.
The trivial solution is a special case of the general solution, where all variables are 0s. Though trivial, it is always a valid solution.
These systems often contain infinitely many solutions, giving rise to free variables of arbitrary values. Any linear combination of 
the basic solutions is also a solution, so adding multiples of a solution to itself will still satisfy the system (it will still read true).

Summarily, this module provided a comprehensive starting-point for solving linear relationships in systems with multiple unknown variables. By arranging
a system into a matrix and reducing the matrix to RREF (through Gaussian elimination), system properties are clearer and more easily interpreted
to determine the nature of the solution. Homogenoeous systems extend upon this by providing a trivial solution and infinitely many solutions, which can be expressed as linear combinations of basic solutions.